README.md, before:

# mongo-to-rabbit

An npm package designed for listening to a Mongodb and notifying a RabbitMQ server on changes.

## To run the package locally with the example: 
1. run rabbit locally: `docker run -it --rm --name rabbitmq -p 5672:5672 -p 15672:15672 rabbitmq:3-management`
2. Initiate the mongo replica: `sudo mongod --replSet rs0`
3. `npm run connect`
4. `mongo`
5. `>use devDB`
6. `db.files.insertOne({ "name": "it works!"})`

* If succeeded, you should see the result sent at the console.log of the receiver.

## Installation
1. `npm i --save mongo-to-rabbit`
2. `import * as mongoRabbit from '../index';`  
`mongoRabbit.watchAndNotify(mongoData, rabbitData);`

## In order to use the package, you must send two object parameters:

### Rabbit Data:
contains 2 fields: 
| #  | field | type | info |
|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | `queueName`  | `string` | the name of the queue to send the information to and receive information from |
| 2 | `rabbitURI `  | `string` | the connection string of the rabbitMQ server |

### Mongo Data:

contains 6 fields:
| #  | field | type | info |
|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | `collectionName`  | `string` | the name of the mongo collection yoa want to listen to |
| 2 | `mongoURI `  | `string` | the connection string of the mongo server |
| 3 | `mongoModel` | `mongoose.Model` | the mongoose model in the db |
| 4 | `dbName`   | `string` | the name of the mongo db in which your collection resides  |
| 5 |  `replicaSet` | `string` | the name of your mongo replicaset |
| 6 | `prettify` | `boolean`  | if true, will filter the result and send it in a specific formt |

#### Example: 

`let rabbitData = {  
    queueName: 'myQueueName',  
    rabbitURI: 'amqp://localhost'  
};`  


`let mongoData = {  
    collectionName: 'files',  
    mongoURI: 'mongodb://localhost:27017',  
    mongoModel: fileModel,  
    dbName: 'devDB',  
    replicaSet: 'rs0',  
    prettify: false  
};`  

`mongoRabbit.watchAndNotify(mongoData, rabbitData);`

* For a more specific example, look at the `src/example` folder.

#### The prettified type format:
type DataObjectType = {  
    id: string;  
    operation: string;  
    fullDocument: object;  
    updateDecsctiption: {  
        updatedFields: object;  
        removedFields: string[];  
    };  
}
* will only work on these operations: `insert`, `replace`, `update`, `delete`

Commit message:

inserted menash
Signed-off-by: shahar-y <shya95@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# mongo-to-rabbit

An npm package designed for listening to a MongoDB and notifying a RabbitMQ server on changes.

Using [MenashMQ](https://www.npmjs.com/package/menashmq) for connection to RabbitMQ,
and [mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com/) for modeling the connection to mongo.

## To run the package locally with the example: 
1. run rabbit locally: `docker run -it --rm --name rabbitmq -p 5672:5672 -p 15672:15672 rabbitmq:3-management`
2. Initiate the mongo replica: `sudo mongod --replSet rs0`
3. `npm run connect`
4. `mongo`
5. `>use devDB`
6. `db.files.insertOne({ "name": "it works!"})`

* If succeeded, you should see the result sent at the console.log of the receiver.

## Installation
1. `npm i --save mongo-to-rabbit`
2. `import * as mongoRabbit from '../index';`  
`mongoRabbit.watchAndNotify(mongoData, rabbitData);`

## In order to use the package, you must send two object parameters:

### Rabbit Data:
contains 2 fields: 
| #  | field | type | info |
|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | `queueName`  | `string` | the name of the queue to send the information to and receive information from |
| 2 | `rabbitURI `  | `string` | the connection string of the rabbitMQ server |

### Mongo Data:

contains 6 fields:
| #  | field | type | info |
|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | `collectionName`  | `string` | the name of the mongo collection yoa want to listen to |
| 2 | `mongoURI `  | `string` | the connection string of the mongo server |
| 3 | `mongoModel` | `mongoose.Model` | the mongoose model in the db |
| 4 | `dbName`   | `string` | the name of the mongo db in which your collection resides  |
| 5 |  `replicaSet` | `string` | the name of your mongo replicaset |
| 6 | `prettify` | `boolean`  | if true, will filter the result and send it in a specific formt |

#### Example: 

`let rabbitData = {  
    queueName: 'myQueueName',  
    rabbitURI: 'amqp://localhost'  
};`  


`let mongoData = {  
    collectionName: 'files',  
    mongoURI: 'mongodb://localhost:27017',  
    mongoModel: fileModel,  
    dbName: 'devDB',  
    replicaSet: 'rs0',  
    prettify: false  
};`  

`mongoRabbit.watchAndNotify(mongoData, rabbitData);`

* For a more specific example, look at the `src/example` folder.

#### The prettified type format:
type DataObjectType = {  
    id: string;  
    operation: string;  
    fullDocument: object;  
    updateDecsctiption: {  
        updatedFields: object;  
        removedFields: string[];  
    };  
}
* will only work on these operations: `insert`, `replace`, `update`, `delete`
